And then make sure, right, you really
finish this evaluation section, right? because from the checkpoint report, you would have a reasonably
good evaluation plan, right? You may have updated during the checkpoint
just to make sure that your plan is still good and maybe already include a little
bit of kind of preliminary results, right? But this is when you're
writing final report, and make sure this evaluation
section is complete. Right, completely meaning that has the
whole kind of setup, right, the metrics, experimental setup, if you're
comparing with any methods, right, and also the key results, okay? So this is the part where it gets a little
bit interesting but also tricky, right? Depending on how your project goes,
right, either you feel like I have, well, I don't have many results, but
I'll just put them all in, okay? But many times you'll see, actually,
I probably have too many results, right? Too many results,
what does it mean, right? because you can easily run
many different analysis. You may have kind of various
types of kind of results, right? So now the question is that,
what are the results to include, right? because say, okay, yeah,
I would like to include everything, right? But think about it, right? You want to include the most
important findings, right? because you may have tried other things,
other things they say, they look similar, that's okay. So you compile just to say, okay, present
your most significant results, right? And then say, okay, I'll also evaluate in
the other setting, and they have similar patterns, or I evaluate in the other
setting, the performance is not as good. That's all fact, right? But you want to prioritize your results,
okay? Which ones are most important? Which ones are important to include? Others can be ignored, or
which ones they're still important. But I don't need to include all
the details just to say that, kind of summarize it in a way, okay? So one is about just prioritizing, right,
what results are most significant, okay? But the other one is about,
again, reasoning, right? Because our goal is not
just to report the results. Say, I got this accuracy, I got this
particular false negative rate, right? You want to be able to
interpret your results, okay. So by interpreting results,
you're basically saying that, okay, what does this mean, right? I got this particular number, right? Or when I compare the different methods,
this is what I got, okay? So you want to go beyond reporting
your results and really kind of say, what does this mean, right? So that means method is always
better than the other method, or this method actually has better
lower false positive rate, right? So it's better for what kind of scenario. So you're just trying to, again,
kind of reason about your results and see how that then connects to
the potential usage scenarios, okay? Another piece I want to kind of add a bit
is about the presentation of your results, right? There are different ways of
reporting your results, right? You can just put a number in your text,
right, in the non-paragraph, which is, of course, not easy to read, right? So think about how you can visualize,
right, your results effectively, okay? So if you're reading other papers or other
articles, you may have seen this, right? So think about, what is the most effective
way of conveying your results, okay? [COUGH] If you're doing comparison,
maybe a table is fine, right? But make sure your table is clear,
it's easy to read. And also maybe you can highlight, right,
the best performance, right, using, say, bolder face or a color, right, so that you can highlight the results
that are most important, okay? So that's more like a table format. And of course, you can use the figures. Right, so there are various kinds
of figures you can leverage. Right, so
bar charts are very useful, right? And also some kind of
temporal charts is good. Pie charts are also good,
and also arrow bar. [COUGH] Bar charts with also
the arrows is also very useful. So there is just many different ways,
right, for you to show. And if you have any kind of spatial
temporal set up, then you can visualize it, right, in a spatial temporal fashion
with different colors, that kind of thing. Okay, so really think about,
right, how you, one, which are the key results to include,
okay? How you explain them or
interpret the results, but also how you present the different
results so it's kind of easy and effective in terms of conveying
the key message, okay? All right, so this part will
take a little bit of time, but really kind of think about
the most effective way to do it. All right, so now you have kind of
finished more the main sections, right, but this section is also important, right? We have been talking about
the discussion section, right? So this discussion, as I said, this is
how you kind of monitor the progress of project and learn throughout
this whole process, right? So the other section is more talking about
the core content of the project itself, but this is more about the process, right? So your discussion, right, as I said,
usually you would include your timeline. So by now, of course,
you've finished, right? You can see I have this, how much time
it took me to finish all that, and what is the current status, right? Keep in mind, right,
even though we're wrapping up a project, that doesn't mean that everything
has to come to a hard stop, right? You can still say that
this is where I'm at. And there can be future tasks or
things that I'm still working on, but I may not be able to finish it in time for
this, which is still fine, right? But the main point here is that you are
still kind of reviewing the progress of your project to see where things are,
any challenges or changes along the way. So this is really your way of
reviewing the whole process. And that's actually important part about
how you learn through this project, right? Because our focus, of course,
is the project itself. It's exactly the concrete kind of task
that you have accomplished, right? But another part is really
about the whole process, right, how we carry out
a data-mining project, right? How things worked out,
how things can be better, right? So the changes, the lessons,
these are actually, I think it's very important to include. And I hope actually really spend some time
kind of reflecting upon the whole process. And then really think about how your
project has been carried out and what you think can be better,
all that, okay? And now we get to the conclusion section,
right? So this is, okay, finally, right,
we're wrapping up [LAUGH] the report, right, and wrapping up the whole project. Okay, as I said, your summary, right, should have a really good
overview of your project. This is when you're wrapping up. This is more like almost the last section
people will read about your report, right? So you want to make sure this
summary is concise, it's clear, kind of highlights some of the key
aspects of your project, right? And also, as I said, when you finish
your project, right, this is when you want to also finalize your discussion,
your final key findings, right? What are the most important
findings of your project, okay? So you may be able to list a few
maybe in order or something, right? So this is also important. As I said, right,
you don't just report results as is, you want to do this kind of this synthesis
and be able to kind of highlight, right, the key findings so people don't need to
sift through all the results you have and figure out what is most important, right? You need to do the job of identifying
the most important findings of your project, okay? There's one more piece, okay? So we talk about the summary,
we talk about the findings, are we done? Okay, so [LAUGH] typically, right,
when you talk about a report, especially data-mining report,
right, when you finish, we want you to really think
about your future work, okay? What does that mean, right? Why do we even need to think about
the future when I'm done, right? I don't need to do more work,
right, in this project, okay? So this is really for
the purpose of kind of looking forward. Remember, we started saying when
you are doing your proposal, think of yourself as an architect, right? You want to be able to kind of be this
kind of this visionary person, right? Identify interesting problems or figure
out how to address a particular problem. And this is how you actually
continue because by now, you have the best knowledge
of your project, right? Think back, right, when you just started
with your proposal stage, right? You say, okay, yeah,
this is all interesting, I think I would like to try it, right? But this is a win at this point, right? You have a lot of knowledge, right? You have some deep
understanding of the problem, you have done some concrete analysis,
right? You probably have some very good ideas
about potential improvements for the analysis that can be
carried out further, okay? So that is not a commitment to say
that I will finish this, right? So when we talk about future work, right,
think about, it's more based on your understanding, there's something
new that can be done, right? So this could be something you
can carry out, right, yourself. If you are interested, I have the time. Or this could be just junior just so
somebody else can take this. Right, think about in a kind of real
world setting, you can actually advise somebody else to take this and
do it further, right, or something. But this is really where you
are looking at where you are, right, based on all the things you
have learned in this project. And then look forward, right,
provide us the vision, okay, of further future work, okay? So what kind of future work, right? So of course,
all the projects are different, so you may have different ideas. So think about, first, right, what you
think could be things that can be done further, right, given what you
have already accomplished, okay? So one example, right,
this is other data to incorporate, right. because I have actually heard many for
my kind of students, right, after they finish
their course project, at the end they say, yeah, I think we
have found some very interesting stuff. But I think if we can incorporate
some other data, right, we can actually ask some more
interesting questions, right? So this is about augmenting the project
with more data because apparently with more data, hopefully there's more
information you can leverage, okay? Think about other data. But also just say, either with the
existing data or with the new data, right, are there questions to explore, right? because apparently you say,
I have explored this, but there could be some other
questions to be explored, right? So that could be also very
interesting to look at further. Also just method itself, right? because I said the techniques,
the methods, those are the core parts in your
data-mining project, right? So you may have explored a few
different methods in your project, right, now you have a better
understanding of those methods, right? So either say, I think those methods
are fine, but they're missing, or limited in some way, so maybe I want to
try, if I had the time as a future worker, maybe I can try other methods, right? So that's one direction. Or taking the method you have, look at
you'll say, I may be able to improve the current method by incorporating
some new information there, right? So those are just actually the potential
improvements because as I said, you now have a very good understanding
of your problem setting. You have very good understanding
of the methods, right? So really think about how you
can make it better, okay? And experiments, right, because with the
evaluation, when you talk about evaluation plan, your evaluation setup, and all the
different experiments you have conducted. You now have very good understanding,
right? But there may be chances, opportunities
for you to do more experiments, right? Say, if I can do more experiments
in this kind of scenario, I may be to explore some kind of new
patterns or answer new questions or further evaluate the message
like I have in mind, right? Another aspect is about the scaling up,
right. because many times with the course
project setting, right, it's limited in scale, right? We're not necessarily talking about all
the huge datasets that you may face in the real world. So based on your study, based on
your analysis and your findings from the course project, right, think about
how you can scale things up, right? How would your method or
the results be similar or different if you are now
talking about 10 times or 100 times, 1000 times a bigger
dataset of the problem, right? Because this really pushes
the boundary in many directions, okay? Just really think about how
the solution may still work or may need to be improved if you are dealing
with a much larger scale, okay? So those are just examples in
terms of future work, okay? But the key point is just that as
you're wrapping up your project or finishing up your report,
just take a little bit of a time, just think about the future work, right? Think really kind of like,
take all the knowledge you have so far and really think about what can
be done at future work, okay? And this is actually a very good exercise,
okay? All right, so just to wrap up, right? So this is really the final
project report stage, right? I want to just kind of reemphasize
the learning objectives, right, for this stage, right? Because at this point, right,
you're finishing your project, you're writing the report, right? And this is very two important aspects,
right? One is, be able to summarize your results,
right, and also present it effectively, right? So this is really about conveying
the key outcome of your project, okay? But also another view is
about the process, right. Analyze the overall project process and
also identify possible improvements, okay? because that's how we learn
from the project, right? Not just the concrete kind of knowledge
you're learning in that project, but also it's about the lesson, about how you
carry out a data mining-project, okay? All right, so that is all for today. Thank you.