Hello everyone. Today
we're going to talk about finishing our project
with a final report. Here as we're wrapping
our course project. There are two key components, so we'd like to
pay attention to. First one is about
summarizing and presenting the key findings
of your data mining project, but also analyze the
overall project process and identifying
possible improvements. We're almost done. We have spend a busy cannot turn like walking on
the course project. We're now about to wrap
up our course project. So as this final
stage of estimation. We're talking about
the two items. One is about the final slice. That's a presentation
slides which should provide a big role, good overview of your project, but also the final
project report, which we should provide more
details about your project. We don't need to write the slides and the
report from scratch. We're going to just take
the checkpoint slides, check on the report, and the updated and expanded. We have our final report. As you're writing
your final report, so the key part of course, is about what has been
accomplished in your project? Because you spend
all the time working on concrete like data
mining projects. Make sure your report like
conveys that message. What has been accomplished. But also it's important not to talk about what
we have learned. The report is not just reported the mechanics of I
have done 1, 2, 3. You really want to identify why you're doing it this way, what you have learned along the process. It's the reasoning. Specifically, as I said, we need this to two items
for some issue costs. The first one is
the final slides, so this the presentation slides. Just to provide an
overview of your project. Since this is just a finishing, remember we started ways
like 5-10 slides for your proposal and then 10-15, for your checkpoint, so
now you're finishing. So we have another more
information to include. We'll talk about
roughly 15-20 slides. You don't worry about it since you have few
other that is okay, but we really don't want you
to have too many slides, because the idea is that this shouldn't be a good summary. Rather than providing all
the details of your project. So roughly 15-20 slides. Also you want to provide a
good overview of your project. Now you should have your
final project title. If you have any updates
of your title, fine, but make sure your
final title is good, concise and informative. Also, it's important
to include in your final presentation
slides of executive summary. Here typically just molecule
one slide or two slides. But this is really more
like a quick summary, like what are the most
important messages you want people to remember
with your project. What are the key
things you have down? What are the key findings
of your projects? Then of course you get
to the specific aspect about your problem statement, related work, or proposal
work evaluation timeline, so that's what we have
covered previously. But now of course, since
you're finishing your project, you just wrapping things up, updating it with some more
concrete information or refined like texts of what
you have accomplished. But also keep in mind about the style of your slides as set, like as you're updating, adding content into your slides, always keep in mind that you want your slides to be clean, so it should be clean, concise, and also
read the conveys. The key message, it's not
about adding a lot of information they can be very complex trying to
provide all the details, no, like you want to use the slides to provide
a good summary. Get people's attention, highlighting the
contributions of your work. So people are interested and they can actually then radio
report for more details. So just keep all this in
mind as you're updating your checkpoint
slides to make it at your final project slides. All right. Then the next part, of course, this is
the main document. That's the final project report. By now you should have
your checkpoint reports. We said that always
utilize 3-5 pages. Now of course you're
adding more content. You are now finishing
up your project. You have more results, you have more discussion
with the measures, and other pieces, to expand a little
bit further updated. Right now we're looking
at roughly 5-10 pages. Again, it's not a hard limit. You can go beyond or
below that slide is okay, but make sure that you're
using the document to really convey what you have
accomplished in the project. We still have the main that the same list of our sections. Project title and then in the
main body of your report, you should have the abstract, the introduction, related work, proposal work, evaluation, discussion, conclusion,
and references. By now you should probably
know these sections very well. Let's go through this quickly. Again, just like now, thinking about finishing
up your report and what are the key pieces to
include in your report. Start with the Project Title. This is the time where you
want to finalize your title. If you have been thinking about and maybe alternative title for your project or you say, since I have changed my directional focus
a little bit and maybe I should have maybe use
a slightly different title. Or let's say based on my key findings that this is really something I
want to highlight, my project title, great. All those are potential ideas
that you can leverage when you're trying to decide what your final project
title would be. Or there's a
previous work or the original you use is
good, that's great. Just use it as is, but just make sure whenever
you're talking about a project title keep in mind that it should be concise,
should be informative. They'd all, when you're
talking about the other, about your project
with anybody else, people can quickly
remember your project just based on the title so they have a generally good idea. I'll go back to your have
accomplished in that project. That's project title, The next one, Abstract. This is the first section if you're using the ACM
proceedings, a template. After title then you can say the abstract section is brief. You should have set
a 1-2 paragraphs, so this is intended as a quick summary,
executive summary style. You're basically just using
these 1-2 paragraphs to very briefly talk about what
is this project about. What do you have
dying this approach? What is the problem
you're tackling? What are the key work tasks
you have accomplished? What are the key results? Really you're using probably one or two sentences
for each of that, and then that, then you
have your abstract. This one should be short, but provides a good summary, because most of the people
when they're reading a report they start
with the abstract, and from the abstract
they should already have a good understanding of
the gist of your project, then they can decide
whether they want to read in more details. Say, okay, that's good, I already know what it is about. Also, compared to your proposal report on
a checkpoint report, your abstract origin
should already have a reasonably good summary
of the problem, the tasks. But when you're
finishing your project, in abstract, make sure you include a couple of sentences. That'll be your key findings. What is the most important
in your findings? For example, I found there's a strong correlation
between A and B, or I have developed a model that I can achieve for
certain accuracy. Then you can then add, say we found this
nominee or some set. Basically, just
highlighting what is the most important finding
of your project. Okay? Then we'll dive into the
introduction section. This section is very important
because it sets the stage. You want to really
convince people in terms of I'm working with
this particular problem, so make it clear what is the problem you're
trying to address. Why this is important, because by now you should have a very good understanding
of your problem setting. See whether you can refine the language there a bit like
because you already have, of course, you
should already have your introduction section from the proposal and from
the checkpoint report. But this is really when you
should review it carefully. Based on your enhanced
understanding of the problem, see whether you can
polish the texts, really highlight
the problem itself. The importance of the problem, why previous solutions
that are not sufficient, and why does the
contribution in your work. Here the contribution,
of course, this could include
the ones that are already accomplished
in your project. Well, still include
this a potential angle because this also
just to a bit of more like the impact or
the down the road. Like you say, I have done this, but this could be very useful
in some kind of scenarios. Think about a bit
more broadly in terms of application scenarios
of your findings. Then the next section
is the related work. Here you would have said check whether you have included all
the related work. As I said, you
probably start with a good set during
your proposal stage. Then maybe have added a few more during your
checkpoint stage. Now, as you're wrapping
up your project, see whether there are
other things you would like to add or again, adjusting the wording of how you discuss the different the
project and how you work, views all palm the
previous work. The problem may not
make major edits here, but just make sure you review it and refine it as omitted. Then the main section
proposal work. By now of course not proposal work is actually what you have accomplished but we can just use the same section
title for now. Make sure you go through
the whole section, like the satellite by right
now your understanding is probably much deeper and much better compared
to when you started. Just make sure you review
what you have written before. Update the information
that's already there. For example, the
datasets, the tools. If you added a new dataset or you have changed the
dataset you were using, or you use or new tools, all those are useful to update. Then when you get to the
main tasks, some of those, you already put it in during your checkpoint
stage because there wasn't this is the things
that have accomplished. That's okay. You can
probably leave that as is. But if you had any iterations
or updates or changes, make sure you revise
those parts as well. Then of course you'll be
adding the new pieces. For example, you talked about in your proposal or
your check point and say this is something
I would like to do. But now this is a one you
actually say I actually did it. Then you can of course provide all the details of how you did the particular aspects of some of the analysis or
some of the modeling, some of the actual setup
for a particular design. All those are the important
information to include. But also keep in
mind the reasoning, so you don't just write
about, I did this. This is how I did it. This is how I did
this particular part, this is how they did this part, but always add it in the
reasoning behind it. Why you're doing this? Why you do it in this way? Why using this method
and not the other one. Then why you are improving existing investor with this
particular change, something. Always add in your reasoning behind those specific tasks
you'll have accomplished. Well cause here
you may say, okay, our original list or
like a couple of tasks, but I didn't get to it. That's okay. In this case, you can probably just move data to your discussion section. The discussion section is where
you will be talking about the changes or things that
you may not have finished. There's total I find that if you say I didn't get to this
part, which is okay. Your proposal work
with just talk about what you
have accomplished, and then you can talk about the other pieces
that you didn't get to do in the later section.