Hello, everyone, today we're going
to talk about your project proposal. So we're now getting ready to propose
our own data mining project, right? And specifically, you need to identify the key
components to include in your proposal. All right, so the main question,
of course, what do we do, right? So we're ready to proposal project. So specifically, your project
proposal is a way just describe, what you plan to do,
in your data mining project, okay? Of course, we know that at the proposal
stage, we don't have all the information, we don't have all the details, we may
not know exactly we're going to find and how things may turn out. So it's totally fine, but
actually we expect it, right? You don't have other information
available that is okay. And because of that, so your proposal
is tentative, it's a plan, right? So it's a tentative and
it's definitely okay to change or update your proposal later, okay? So don't feel that you're
committing to your proposal and you have to follow exactly what
you are planning right now. That's actually the nice
part about exploration. Because with the data analytics, many times you start by asking
some interesting questions, but we don't necessarily know what are we
going to find, so things can change. So it is again the analytical thinking and the reasoning that really kind of
guide us in this process, okay? So anyway, so at this stage,
selling to the proposal, you come up with a good idea and you have
a good plan for carrying it out, right? But knowing that not all the information
is available and things can change. Of course now the big question is that,
okay, yeah, we need to submit a proposal, right? What should be included
in a project proposal? Okay, so think about it, right? So if you are to now kind of say, I just
asked you to give me a proposal of your data mining project, what are the key
components you think you should include? All right, let's start with the first one,
that is your project title, okay? It's very important to have
a good project title, right? because many times I have seen
people just say data mining project. Of course, that is the data mining project
for each of the student or anybody, but it's really not helpful or
informative in any way, right? So you really want to pick a good
project title which should be concise. So that means you don't want a very
long title that people can easily forget, right? So it is concise, so
it's easy to remember. But also you want to make
the title informative. So the title should actually
give people a good idea, right? In terms of what you're planning to do,
okay? Of course, it's just a title,
so you cannot carry everything. So the starting point is that just
think about all the keywords, right? In terms of maybe the application or
the problem or the technique or the kind of data you're using, right? So just see what are the most
important keywords to include and see whether you can embed those
in your project title, okay? Also [COUGH] it's optional, but I have
seen people choosing good acronyms or code name for their project, okay? So which is also actually the good
way to kind of have a short but informative kind of name that people
can remember your project with, okay? So do spend a little bit of time really
kind of think about what project title you should use, okay? And of course you can change it, but try to come up with a reasonably good one,
okay? All right, so the next part is
usually referred to as abstract in the more like academic setting. And many times you may have heard people
using the term executive summary, okay? So that's really just intended as summary,
right? So this is really just like a brief
description of what are your project about, okay? Because typically you may have
a much longer report, right? But if you want to just give people
a quick synopsis of your project, right? So here you typically use like one or
two paragraphs, okay? And then you just slightly
give a good overview, brief overview of what your
project is about, okay? So this is a short,
like a very short overview. Now we get into more of the detailed
kind of components of your proposal, okay? First one, we typically use this
introduction kind of piece, okay? So you could use a section in your report,
okay? So what is the introduction about? Right, you basically want to just
introduce your project, okay? So what do you need to introduce, okay? First one, what is the problem, right? Of course, you say, okay, I'm working
on a data mining project, right? But what is the problem you
are trying to tackle, okay? So just start by describing the problem,
okay? And then the next part piece is
about why is this important, right? Say okay, this is a problem, but why this
is an important problem to solve, right? because you're talking about spending
your time and effort on finishing it or doing your data mining project
on this particular problem. So you will not at least kind of
expand to some extent, right? Why this problem is important to solve,
okay? And also it is important to talk a little
bit about what has been done already. Because many times the problem you're
trying to address is not brand new, right? So either the exact problems have
been kind of tackled by other people with some solutions already. Or you're working on maybe not the exact
same problem, but it's kind of related. So they maybe have some related problem
that people have addressed, okay? So it is important for you to have a
reasonably good understanding of what has been done already because we really don't
want to just repeat whatever other people have already done. So knowing what has been addressed
already existing solutions. But also important is about why
there's still a gap, right? Because giving what
people have done already, they didn't really address this problem,
right? Okay you want to briefly talk about
the limitations or the gap, right? Giving existing solutions, right? That then sets the stage for
why you're working on this problem and why there's a potential
contribution in your work. because this is important,
you want to be working on a project and you're actually contributing
to something new, right? [COUGH] So this is really like again
kind of setting the stage, right? So instead of really think about
the problem, setting the value of solving that problem, the limitations and
also potential contribution, okay. So try to think about it in this way,
because that really just says that this is important to address and
I think I have a way to do it better. So if I am to use example like,
I talk about my research projects, some of the examples I gave in
the previous lecture, okay? So let's say for my, if you remember my plug in hybrid
electrical vehicle problem setting. So here the problem is that we
want to understand how the vehicle, particularly the battery system performs
under different driving behavior, okay? So it is important problem because by
understanding how that performs then we can actually then come up with a better
solution or better design, right? And of course we have better way
of estimating the capacity of the battery system over longer time, okay? So it gives us this benefit
if we can do it, okay? But the limitations of prior solution. So we work on that project,
they were really not a good solution that actually ties together a data-driven
approach that tries to connect people's driving behavior with
the battery system performance. There were various kinds kind of
battery system kind of physical models. Trying to understand how the system would
be expected to perform under some kind of specific scenarios, but they're really
not connected to the real world usage. So from our perspective so
the potential contribution, right? Saying is that by collecting real world
data about users driving behavior and the vehicles,
the battery system performance. We are able to have a much more realistic
model of how the battery system perform. And then from there provide more precise
estimation of the overall performance and also provide directions for
the improvement, okay? So that's just one example, right? So think about your project and think about how you want to just
kind of provide that kind of reasoning, why there's a problem, why there's
something interesting to work on, okay? So you have talked about the introduction. So the next section we usually go a little
bit deeper to talk about the related work, right? In the previous slide we say you want to
talk about existing solutions, but just briefly because your goal is
really more about highlighting the limitations of the existing work,
okay? So here you kind of dive
in a little bit further, so you can talk more specifically about
what has been done already, right? So this is just kind of making
sure that you have a good understanding of the related work, okay. So when you say related work,
it's really just about, okay? This is a project I would like to work on,
but what other related work
that has been done already? So typically, depending on your project,
you can usually group for your discussion of the related work into kind of
maybe two or three categories, okay? This could be about specific topics,
right? Or this could be more about kind of
the data set or the tools or previous study and their findings, okay? But the key idea is that you want to
identify ones that are relevant and then be able to just
group them in the way. And then describe how they are related and
how they are different, okay? Because the key point is that you want to
be able to show that I have a good knowledge of what has happened
already in this field, okay? And how my work will build upon this,
that is important, right? because our goal is not
to reinvent the wheels. We actually want to leverage whatever
has been done already, right? So there may have been
a previous kind of tool or method that works reasonably well,
but I see a way to make it better. Or they are previous study that
look at one perspective, but maybe not the other ones,
which are more interesting. So you could be adding new knowledge,
right? So just think about how your
project builds upon all the prior work in terms of utilizing
the ones that has been already. If it's a nice tool,
a nice data set you can use, right? But also think about how you may be able
to compare across different methods or for your particular usage scenario, okay? And of course you can look for
particular improvement. And also there may be new knowledge you
can capture giving what has been done already, okay? Of course, this is really
dependent on your actual work, and of course you can expand your related work
as you move along your project, right? Because you may start by identifying IPU,
but as you go deeper, you may find other relevant ones,
which is totally okay, right? We said we don't have all the information
at the proposal stage, so it's actually good for you to update
further as you find more information. But the key point when we talk about
related work is about understanding what has been done and
how your work improves upon that, right?