Hello everyone.
Today let's continue our discussion of
our course project. Specifically we're going to talk about the project Checkpoint. So right now I should it be some work in the middle point. We've finished with the
project proposal and now we're in the
process at what these shiny at the developing our solution for the real-world
data mining project. The key part is to single about the food data mining pipeline. As a quick review, we
covered the whole pipeline. As we said earlier,
data mining is not just one particular component where you just take some data, do some modeling, and
report the results. We really need to think
about the whole process. Starting with collecting
the raw data. See how you all getting the specific dataset as
needed for your project. We have the data and then progresses through
the whole pipeline. Trying to understand your data, think about whether there's any pre-processing
that is needed. Think about data warehousing, how you can manage your data or analyze data in particular way. Then first, the modeling
process and evaluation. Throughout this whole
process just to keep in mind that what is the big
picture of your project. Because remember, as
we were proposing our project we said what
is the application? What is this scenario
you're trying to utilize the data mining methods
and the process of four. What kind of knowledge
you're trying to learn, what kind of data using and
what kind of techniques? All those need to come
together and this is how we can integrate
the various pieces that will have learned so far in the data mining
specialization to really put this into an actual solution for
a real-world project. If you think about
your progress. Because the right
now, if you look back and of course
looking forward. What kind of a progress we are expecting in
your course project. Starting point. You should have obtained the data you need. You need the data to
accomplish your project. Do you have the data you need? Are you still in the process of collecting data or you have all the data you need
locally available. Also, think about the tools. Data mining is a
very active field. A lot of tools that have
all ready been developed. We really should to
leverage other tools Master that's already available instead of reinventing
the wheel. Identify the tools that are potentially useful
for your project. If you're not too familiar
with the tools already, of course spend a
little bit time learned about those tools. The most of those tools to have some good tutorials are
examples for you to get familiar with it until
I started using them. Then I decided I take your time. Try to understand your data because this is a stage
where you basically say, take your data and then they'll say what attributes do I have? What distribution am I seeing? Do see trim values and
also you may try to visualize your data in different
ways so you can actually have better understanding
of your data. In the preprocessing
stage, right? Think about what processing you have down all
ready or things that you think you may
still need to do because there may
be missing values. Maybe there's some filter
and you have to do or aggregation or like
a normalization. Basically here you are picking
the different types of data after you have looked at them and now you're
trying to prepare them. Again, depending on the specific data you
are dealing with. This step may take more time or longer time, but typically, it is important
to at least think about what do you need
to do in this stage? The next one, warehousing. All our project may
not be that big data require extensive kind of
design of the data warehouse. But the key idea here is that from your project point
of view is about whether there are better ways
for you to organize your data and manage
your data so that it's easier for you
to do your bobbing on evaluation or intuitive process. Here either you can say, all I have the data in
the right format I need, so I'm fine. That's okay. But if you are anyways, they may be different types of data and there are some benefits of rearranging things or pricking them in
different subsets. Spend your time, just
take the effort and then just make sure it's
organized properly. Then as you progress further, now you've got your data, you have a good
understanding of it. You are ready for
the actual modeling. This is a core step where
you think about what you or what specific modeling, problems you're
trying to adjust. We cover quite a few in our data mining methods
course, and of course, depending on your project, you may pick or maybe
focus on particular one, or there maybe a
couple you're trying to address, either is fine. But think about what is the most useful method for your particular
problem setting. Let's think about specifically, we've talked about
different methods, and there are tools
available readily, you can actually just
utilize what is available. But then the key part is about
identifying your problem, identifying the suitable
methods for your problem. In this process,
do you see ways of improving your method further. All this is of
course challenging, but that's really the
interesting part and that's a potentially the most
innovative aspect, and that you will do this in a more like iterative process. You know you're
modeling a problem. You may try out some method. You will have the basic
evaluation to see how it performs and then see whether
you can improve it further. There will be better
back-and-forth in particular, between the modern and
evaluation of steps. We talk about how you need
to think about the metrics, say like give me your
problem setting. You want to say, okay, how
do I evaluate a success. What kind of metrics do I use? Keep in mind you maybe focusing more on the
effectiveness side, that's more like the quality of the models or the methods, but also many scenarios. Think about how the efficiency
angle is also applicable. How long does it take for you
to process that much data? There's both, of course,
the offline training piece and also the online
decision-making piece, and maybe there are
different sub-tasks and also if you're comparing
between methods. Also think about
how they compare in terms of effectiveness and
in terms of efficiency, and many times you
will be starting asking this question
about the trade-offs because in many scenarios you may have method that
they perform differently. Maybe no idea cases
may be one method that's superior to all the other approaches,
fine, that's good. But there are many
scenarios you will see that like different methods
may perform differently, and it's not clear ones
always better than others. Now you get to this trade-off. It's about this semester
there is a more accurate, but it takes more time. The other method is like, well slightly lower
in terms of accuracy, but it's a much more efficient. Or this method actually performs better in
these scenarios. Because when you
look at the arrows, like the false positive, false deck trade-offs, you can also see
different effects. This method has a
lower false positive, but the other method have a low false negative or something. This is actually the poor
part of this reasoning, it's about knowing the method, knowing how the method works, applying them to your
particular problem and your data-set,
seeing the results, and then be able to reason about the pros and cons of
different methods. As you're progressing.
This is now we're getting to this the
checkpoint stage, and we're really trying
to get a status update. This is like are
things on track? Remember we propose
to our project, that is one way, we're
planning things out. We would like to work on that. We'd like to tackle
those tasks about now. As we progress
through our project, we have better understanding
of the problem and we have like some maybe
preliminary results already. All that would not allow
us to have in a way, revisit of our proposal, and now checking
where things are. For the purpose of a checkpoint. Really think about your
progress and also changes. Progress means that what you
have accomplished so far. While the change is important, as we said, the proposal
stage was really tentative. We're still planning out and we're figuring out
a lot of things. But by now, you may have
some more concrete ideas, also you may have adjusted things or even made
a bigger changes. All those are fine. But
this is what we would like to identify for the checkpoint. Again, they're just the
two pieces to submit. This is very similar
to the proposal stage. You'll be submitting
checkpoint slides and also checkpoint report. Remember for the
project proposal, you also submit the
slides and also report. For the checkpoint,
you don't need to redo everything from scratch, rather, you take your
proposal slides, you take your proposal
report and just update them. Because supposedly,
this is still the similar problems
that then you may have to adjust the science
a little bit or you may have added something new, or you infer there's
more substantial change of your project
that is still fine. You can reuse some
of the pieces you have already and then just say what has changed and
what you have done so far. These are the two main pieces, the checkpoint slides and
also checkpoint report. What should be included
in the checkpoint slides? As we said, that this
is the updated version from your proposal slides
so you'll probably have very similar content compared
to the proposal slides. If you remember original
we're suggesting that roughly 5-10 slides
for your proposal stage. Because of course we were
just planning things out at a lot more high level planning and overview of the project. Here, say hopefully by now you have a few more slides to add. Again, this is just a guideline, it's not a hard limit. You don't have to
fit your slides exactly between 10 or 15. But that's just saying
by now you should have a few more slides with a bit more concrete
information on them. But throughout the slides, it's about highlighting
your progress, highlighting any
potential changes. For the purpose of the
checkpoint slides, you should give a
good overview of the project because it
has been a while since we saw your proposals
and also you have maybe a different
review or maybe looking at your checkpoint report. Make sure you provide
a good overview. It's very similar in
terms of your projects. I didn't just say this is
what my project's about, you have a good title, and also think about
your problem statement, relate to work, proposed
work, evaluation timeline. You can take your proposal
slides on top of that. Now, you can just add in
information that is new, that is different, but make
sure you highlight them. Say, this originally, I plan to focus on those that
while I made there has been a few changes or I have tried this but it's
not working out well. I'm attentioned with shifting my focus a little bit
to a different one. That is all okay but
it's really, again, a good summary of your project but with a focus on the
progress and changes. Here, I want to just remind
everybody again of the style because of course life you will have paid a good attention
during your proposal stage, your slides should
already be good. It's reasonably
clean in terms of the overall style and also they have key points and are easy
to read all those are good. But just keep in mind because many times as we get into some
of the details with them, we tend to put in
more information on a single slide like to say, there's a lot of some
important detail I want to put in but always sit back and just
re-examine your slides. Always makes sure they're
clean, they're simple, they're concise and
they're to the point, they really highlight the
key points you want to make. Don't worry about
including all the details. We will have the
report. Of course, you will be writing the report
with some of the details. But many times the goal is not just to convey all
the information. Through your slides,
your slides is really a good overview and a highlighting the
most important part. That's about your
checkpoints slides so let's look at the report. The report again, would
it be updated and expanded version from
your proposal report. You have the similar ACM
proceedings template. Here, we're putting a
better guideline in terms of the pagements because many times when you're
writing report, we tend to ask you how many
pages will have to write. We didn't specify this for the proposal report because
the idea is we just you're getting started just
write whatever you feel comfortable with the information that you think you
can provide then. But by the time you
get to the checkpoint, hopefully you have a little
bit more content to include. Again, 3-9 pages so this
is just a guideline. You don't have to feed
them right into that. A little bit shorter,
that's fine or a bit longer that's fine too. But the key point is
that you want to convey the information effectively
in this report. Just again, think about the specific sections we
discussed for the proposal stage and then see how you have updated content for
each of those sections.