We start. We are finishing
our data mining project. It's like looking back, where we started with really brainstorming by saying what
is a data mining project. I was like, it's really
pushing everybody to be the architect
of your project. Because the idea is
that instead of being provided with a readily
defined project and then you just come up, go and finish the task, there's a like one-by-one, here, I really want to get everybody to propose why they
own a project. I feel that's actually
very important skill to have and actually it's very useful in many real-world
settings because you want to be able
to identify projects. Identify the problem setting, think about what
you'd like to use specifically in that project and explore the different
questions you could answer with your
data mining project. We went through the steps of
general brainstorming and then really like concretely defining your project
where I see the proposal, and then we had our checkpoint discussion-based just seeing how things are and be able to see whether there
has been any changes, whether things are on track, and of course finishing the
project with a final report. Those are the core tasks involved in the data
mining project. But also I really want to
highlight this review aspect. By now, all of you of course, have submitted your
proposal, checkpoint, and final report
and you should have done the reviews
of other projects. I hope you really see the
value of being the reviewer, because many times when we're
working on our own project, we become too focused
on just finishing it, and in a way may lose the bigger picture or
see the whole process. By reviewing other
people's report, hopefully provides a bit of more perspective so
in terms of like, yeah, I wasn't thinking
in my project, but I want to look at other
people's projects I see those aspects which
I can do better in my project or I can
provide good feedbacks or useful suggestions
to my classmates in terms of their project. That's really how I think
we learn from each other, and how we help each other. I hope you'll post the review, add a bit more effort, but I hope you enjoy that and really see how you can
learn from that process, and how that augments your own project's aspect by providing this
reviewer's perspective. To summarize, if you check our definition
over the course, and that we actually
really highlighted these four core pieces as the objectives of our
data mining project. The first one is
about being able to identify the key components of a real-world
data mining project and propose your own project. That's why, and I still haven't
said that we have really pushing everybody to
define your own project. It makes it a little harder
because of course it takes more effort for you to come up with your own project. But hopefully you are able to pick a project that
you are interested in and you're able to
carry it out and actually really learn something
that it feels useful. That's the proposal stage. But then the next
piece, of course, is the actual hands on
experience of designing and developing the
actual solution across the full data
mining pipeline. That's also important because in the real world
data mining project, you just need to work through
all the different pieces. There's no predefined
color checklists or a guideline for you to say just follow the instruction
you will be good. Here there's a lot of reasoning. You really need to think
about at every step. For every particular design, or every particular result, think about where the ends
are, what that means, and how you can go
further from there. This is really the
whole process. There's no predefined set of rules or
procedures to follow, but it's really about how you know the whole process
and then being able to reason about your progress throughout
the whole thing. Then we get to this
the racking up piece, because you may have a very
interesting project idea, you have done some of the
solution, but ultimately, it's about how you
summarize your results, and if you have to
present effectively because your report should not be just something like
I have done all this, I have a full list of our
results to pages or figures, so go check it out. Actually, a big part of value of a data scientist is being
able to synthesize, extract what you have done, and really highlighting the
key findings so that you can convey that knowledge to your audience rather than
just providing a full report. That's also very important. Actually really can
always think about it as you're presenting your results. As I said, the result
wouldn't be just say, a table or a figure and
they say go figure. Rather you say,
what does it mean? When I show you this the table, when I show you this figure, I want to be able to
add and also provide this interoperation
about what is it, why this is important. The last piece, but
also very important, this actually goes
through the whole process because we went to a little bit the
concrete aspects of writing the proposal, doing the work of writing a check for and then
the final report. But a main piece that's
outside of the core component of your specific project is
about this bigger picture, architectural view of how
a project is carried out. Some of you may be doing this project for the first time, some of you may have already had experience in other settings. This is all good, but this
is a really how we learn to the real project but also go beyond a single project,
be able to see, that just generally,
what is a good way to carry out a project
going from the design, going from the execution, summarizing and all that. In this process, think about
how you can do it better. With that, we have
actually come to the end of the data
mining specialization. In this specialization,
we have three courses. We started with the
data mining pipeline, we really went through
the individual steps of the whole pipeline and how
the pipeline are important, and how it connects together to provide a good
data mining setup. We then dive into the
data mining methods, so this is the second
of course and we talk about specifically the
different methods we can use. We'll talk about frequent
pattern analysis or we'll talk about classification,
clustering, anomaly detection and
also a little bit more, but the more advanced methods. That's really the frontiers
of a data mining field, what's happening in
the researcher field, but also some of the complex
data mining scenarios. Hopefully that gives you
a bit of good foundation. Then in this course, we went through a concrete
data mining project, which is defined by
yourself and carried out by yourself and of course
reviewed by your peers. Hopefully, we went through the whole process
and really getting a much better understanding
of this hands-on experience. Just to summarize. Data mining is reapplied. It's happening in
the real-world. It's happening in many
very diverse settings. What I hope is that you have enjoyed learning all
these materials, but also can see beyond what we're
learning in the course, but to see really how they
connect to the real world. As a takeaway message,
stay curious. Data mining is actually
very powerful. It has great potentials in
many real-world settings, so just keep asking
your questions, so what you could do if you had those data or what if
you get those data, what other particular fields
you can learn from that? Throughout the whole process, keep in mind, we want to
use analytical thinking. It's not about the mechanics of just apply the data
mining methods. It is about the reasoning
behind the whole process that makes data science particularly interesting
and valuable. With that, I'd like to
thank all of you and I wish you best for your future
adventure. Thank you.