We will talk about introduction, we'll talk about a related work. The next work process is
really the core part. That is a proposed work. What are you proposing to do? Where does or what
the problem is. What has been done already, but what you are going to tackle , your particular project. Typically, especially with the data mining
project, of course, you like to start by
thinking about the datasets, the tools you can use. Here just include
some good description about what data you can use. What information is
including this dataset. Are there existing
tools that has certain functionality
you can readily utilize? This again helps you to plan your work so you don't have
to spend all the effort just creating the dataset or building a tool that should
just be too much work. Leverage what is available. Clearly identify those. But then you get to the
part of your main tasks. As we mentioned earlier, is typically a good idea for you to play your project using a set of prioritized
list of tasks. The idea is there may be
different things I can explore and I'm not sure what I
can explore all of them. I may add other
ones as I progress. These are all fine.
But there's always initial list of tasks, and let's think about how
you want to carry them out. This actually connects back to our discussion of the
data mining pipeline. As I said, that you
have a problem setting, but then need to
accomplish what you want. Think about the whole
pipeline and think about what you would do, or can do in each
of those steps. Starting with the raw data, understanding the data.
Understanding stage. It's a very helpful and
actually you really need it for you to just take your
time, understand your data. You can do statistical analysis, just understand the
various distribution. Whether there's any
extreme values. Also just visualize
your data so you have a much better understanding of the data you're working with. Just a starting point. But then you can
move on and think about whether you need
to do certain types of pre-processing and
whether there's a particular warehouse and what data management
mechanisms you can leverage. Because many times if you
spend a little bit time here preparing your data or manage your
data are properly, it will make it much easier
for your analysis later on. Then of course you get to the core parts of data modeling. Because depend on
your problem you may be asking
specific questions. I can generous thing about the techniques we have talked about. Frequently data
analysis, whether this is classification problem
you're trying to address. Whether you want to use this as unsupervised
clustering-based approach, or you're focusing
more on the anomalies. Or this could be more of
the temporal analysis or image and texts or graph. Those are all specific
things you could do. Then once you have a
generalist you say, these are other things
I like to explore. Just put them down and have a reasonable discussion about how you would like
to carry out those. Again, keep in mind
that you may don't have all the concrete
things unless they're. You may have maybe a
high level saying, yeah, this is a
classification problem. These are the measures
or metrics, bro, good. Or you may be say, I'm not exactly sure, but there are some
questions I'd like to explore and see whether I
can answer those questions. All of those okay, this will readjust your planning stage. Don't really be
concerned about, oh, I don't know exactly what
I'm going to do here, but ask her some
interests in questions. Because this, again, is your pennies that you
are the architect. You figure out, what would it be some interests
question to explore? You may or may not
find a good answer. It may not turns out to be interesting pattern or you may not find
this as I'm saying, which is a fine, but asking the question at this
stage is important. You propose this. These are
the things you'd like to do. But also think about how you're going to evaluate your results. Because many times as I said
with a data mining project, you don't just say, I did this analysis, this a lot. This is the results.
Here you go. Somebody has to
take your results in a day so they can use it. But you need to show how
good your results are, how reliable your results are, how accurate your model is. You need to think
about specifically how you're going to carry out
the evaluation process. Starting point for us is that
for your problem setting, what kind of evaluation
metrics are important? Generally what I think
about effective measures. We say if it's a classification, you talk about accuracy. You're talking about
the frequent patterns where you have the
support value, you have the confidence,
you have the correlation, all those values you can use to show how significant that is. Also think about, remember we talk about
the false positives or false negatives and how
they may be different, like one may be more
important than the other. Then many times is
not a single metric. You may be using
multiple metrics to evaluate different
perspectives. Another thing I really
want to emphasize that when you're considering
your evaluation metrics, think about both the
effective measures, but also the efficiency angle. Efficient can be,
how long does it take for you to carry
out each of those steps? This is really just more like the latency or the pseudocode. I say like how many data points can you handle in
certain timeframe? Those are important,
especially if you are say, comparing different
measures or see whether this actually would be useful or feasible for the
real-world setting. The latency angle, the efficiency
angle could be playing an important role if
you're talking about potential trade-offs between
different approaches. If you have the
evaluation metrics, and then of course you
say, how am I going to carry out the evaluation? This then gets to this
experimental setup. What data are you going to use? Are you going to split your data in two different subsets? Are you going to use certain portion as your training
set and the testing set? We talk about
cross-validation, multifold, k-fold cross validation,
or significance of tests. All those are important. Just think about the exam, how you're going to compare. Again, keep in mind that you may not have everything figured out. This is the proposal stage. Just better you need
to start thinking about it and write
down what you have already and then we
can of course refine that later as you move
along in your project. Another angle I will also point out is that many times
in your evaluation, you're probably be comparing
different approaches. For example, I say, to solve this particular
bulb problem, there are a few
different ways to do it. There may be some
existing solutions and even your own solution you may have a few
different choices. All those are the things
that you can compare. Because when you're comparing
the different measures using against of course
the evaluation metrics, then you actually have a
much better sense of how one solution compared to
the other and whether they've performed better in
this case over this other. Of course, at this
stage you don't have the actual evaluation yet, but you're really
just planning out how you want to evaluate
and how you claim success or good performance when you're talking about your end results
or your solutions. This section may be a little bit confusing at the beginning. I reinvented this is actually
a discussion section. This is a bit more of
push you further along this analytical
reasoning direction. This is really just
a generalized. Think about how you'll
want to plan out your project because this is really just about
the project timeline. Because during our
marking week term, our schedules are different and your workload are different, just make sure you plan
things out ahead of time so you know generally
what are the tasks, when you expect to finish what. Is this actually realistic? Is it may be too much, or maybe you can actually
do a little bit more? This is really just to
helping you to plan out, how you plan to carry out. Also you can talk
a little bit about your current status
because this will be updated later as you make
progress in your project. But say in your current
status you can say, I have already obtained
the dataset or I had some very initial
reading of this. I would regard this to
a working or something. This is really just a way of
summarizing for yourself, but also reporting in a way, just how you plan to
carry out this project. There's also a casualty is
something you can include. Is that potential challenges
because you have a plan. This is what you
would like to do, but you foresee some particular maybe challenges or roadblocks. Why you see this piece? I'm not sure I would
like to do it, but there's some chance
that it may not work out. Or like, I would like to ask
this particular question, but it may not turn out
to be very useful or easy or something. You
can talk about this. Again, if you don't
have anything to talk about here, don't worry. But this is really a
place where you can like a reasoning about, okay? This is what I plan to do. I propose it to do this, but what are the
potential scenarios that may redirect or requires
certain changes? This also gets to
this notion of like, think about like
alternative approaches or whether you
have a backup plan if something doesn't work out. You may not need this at all. But it's just a
janitor good to think about whether because
sometimes I say, okay, I like to look at those questions or
use this dataset. But maybe it's a dark tunnel. I couldn't really
use this dataset, doesn't have the
information I need. Then, in that case, my
backup plan may be say, augmented always another dataset I think I couldn't use also use this dataset to
combine it maybe. Or does it always with this dataset doesn't
work out or does the tool doesn't
work out as you have another option, I could do this. Those are other times we just planning and not
just thinking about how you may be able
to lighted candle. Well adjust the
potential candlelight or challenges or down the road. General fund or any proposal
or report document. You started with a good overview of the abstract and the intro. You're talking about
the details, right? But it's always good
for you to have a conclusion or
concluding section, which is again, tie everything back together. This is really just
more like it's meant as a project summary. When you're writing
this, you may feel this may be a little bit repetitive of what we have said already, but just keep in mind, it'd be very helpful
for your audience or your reader to be
able to have a more likely this a good picture right on with good summary both at the beginning
and the end. Also, there are two
particular pieces that you may want to include as you
write your conclusion. This, of course, when you finish your project like this,
there's also proposals. They just so you
don't have those yet. But typically, when you finish your project,
your final report, write your conclusion is
important for you to of course, give the summary,
but they're really highlight your key findings. But because the people will
be paying attention to that. Because they know
now you're summarize and concluding your report. What are the most important
findings in your work? Also, it's actually always interesting to think
about future work. Of course, the kinds
that by the time you finish your
project, you're done. You're not obligated to do more, but this is future work. Candlelight go discussion or
thinking is very important because your daily life or your project doesn't really
stop there, I could say, this is what I have
accomplished so far but if I am to carry this further or if somebody else is to
carry this further, there are some interesting
questions to explore further. There is actually a very
good thinking again, using this architecture view. You say this is what
I would like to do, but by the time we're
finish they're also like further things
so we can explore. Just keep all that in mind as you're writing your
conclusion section. That's really the main pieces that should be included
in your proposal.