Starting points. We were just reviewing all the
different pieces. We went through this
for the proposal stage. Right now for the checkpoint, we look out at the
same guideline, but now see whether you have more concrete things
that are more like a better idea in
terms of what you can coach into each
of those sections. Title. As I said, we want to just
always a good title. But maybe at the beginning, you may not have as a
clear idea of what you want to do and now as you progress further
with your project, you still cannot have some specified and would
actually change my title. This could be subtle changes or most substantial.
Either way is okay. But what we want is out
of your project title is concise and informative title that really conveys the
key idea of your project. You may have started with a reasonable good product
like project title. But as you are writing your
protect people and also think about whether you can improve
your code on a little bit. Because ultimately you
just wanted people to hear your title and remember it of course, but
also understand. What you're trying to do in
that particular project? Abstract. This is the
executive summary, as I said. It's one or two paragraphs long, and they'll really just provide a good summary of your project. If you look back at what you wrote for your proposal stage, we have some saying
been a more of a just planning things out and a bit of a vague or
even like there's some specifics on
now to spelled out. Right now, just take
that version and then revise it so that you have, hopefully like more
concrete description. But still it should be concise. The plan is not to have the abstract spit out all
the technical details, but rather is about
highlighting. But what is project about, what you're trying to
accomplish and then if you have some information or
details already, what will be the key findings? Because started
putting some of that. Then introduction. This is the main intro section. We listed right there
like four key components. What is the problem? Why
is this problem important? What are the new mutations
of existing work? Also what is your
potential contribution? Take some time, read what
you have written before for your proposal and then
of course, update it. Or you could say, that's
still stays true. Whatever I wrote for the
proposal is still good. I'm fine. That's great. But if you see ways to
refine your description, you may have some more concrete, like understand the problem
or you may have learned slightly better
justification for the importance of the project. Also you may have identified
some other related work that also may require some update in terms
of the new mutation. But designing solutions and
of course, your contribution. As you can have a better understanding of what you're doing for your project, what you could accomplish
while you may also be able to update your contribution
or component. That's the introduction section. Related work section.
This is a way of course, talking about what has
been done already. We talk about how you want to put them into
different categories. It's easier to read a user
like a one paragraph on maybe one particular
topic or one focus. Also the important part is about how you work differs and abuse all palm
frond those prior work. What do you don't
want it to mention, this is what has been done and what I'm
doing is really just a repeating or they're
just falling exactly what they have done and just come up with
doing that for myself. That's not particularly helpful. It's a useful in
terms of learning. But we want to see that you're
building upon prior work. That is how you
show the value of your project and show the
contribution of your work life. It doesn't have to be
substantial contribution. But you want to be able
to really think about how your work life at something new to what
has been done already. Now in terms of updating
for the checkpoint stage. Well, whatever you
have written in the work session
may still apply, but you may have
things you want to add or fans you want to
adjust or I say, since I'm changing
my projects study so this is maybe
not as relevant, but instead I'm just
adding something else or I have found a new piece of unrelated work which
is quite irrelevant. I'm going to add a data
in. All those are good. Just basically update. You don't have to rewrite
the whole section. You probably have some
good content already. Read more about refining it was any new
information you have. Then proposal work. But this is of course section. By now, you may decide, maybe that's too big a section
maybe I can separate it into subs Marco section,
which is all fine. But this is really just talking about what you're trying to do. Again, you have your
proposal report. You have your initial plan of
what you're planning to do. At this stage, you're just putting in more details
of the product like, I now have more information
about the datasets. I'm going to just explain
specifically what data I have and what attributes they have and how big are
they and all that. Or if you actually
collected data on the fly, then you also can write
a little bit more about your data
collection process. Or the tools you're using. You may have, can
identify new tools or you have change of [inaudible] I originally thinking
about using this tool, but turnout wasn't
particularly useful, so I'm now trying something new. All those are good, but
this is just update of description of datasets tools. But then the main tasks, this is where you can
actually hopefully add in some of the details as you
progress into your project. As we will talk about, like
when you have your data. Apparently you can do some initial statistical
analysis so you can report to write
sum over the size, how many dimensions and
maybe the distribution histograms scatter plot,
whatever visualization. If it's a temporal, some
kind of spatial information, or some kind of all heatmap. Let's think about different
ways to read it to convey some of the key characteristics
of your dataset. Also, like preprocessing, warehousing, right side of
the stage, we're preparing. Actually a lot of real-world
projects really call for a lot of effort in terms
of getting the data ready. You may be dealing
with missing values what do you do with
the missing values, figure things out, or if you're merging
different datasets, do you see how you
actually maybe describe how you're
preparing the dataset. If you have done
any normalization, or you have done
some data selection. You are selecting dataset
for different scenarios. All those are useful. Also you are to say how I
do the data warehousing. Say, I have initially those multiple CSV
files and now are organized into a
database or have some way of managing
all the data. It's easier for me to query
the different subsets. All those are you
can write into as you are making progress
because this is important. You are describing
what you're doing. But also important
is that you're not just describing or
you do 1, 2, 3, 4, because it's not
written as more like a report that somebody would fall on repeat your step. You want to add
in the reasoning. I'm seeing this in my dataset or I'm trying to tackle
this particular problem, and this is why I choose
the method to do it. You're basically in a way
documenting not only the steps, but also why you're doing it. Then of course the
specific questions, the patterns and the modeling
you're trying to do. There are many approaches. Again, the focus is
about why you're choosing this method or
this certain method, and why you think
that they would work, and then just to
provide your reasoning and provide some of the details
about what you're doing. In order to explore particular patterns or
building particular models. And then of course, evaluation. By now hopefully you have
something more concrete. Remember, for the proposal stage or
say so totally fine, you're really talking about January in terms of how
you plan to evaluate. Think about the metrics, and now do you think that
those metrics still apply? Or do you think that you
have some maybe slightly different or you want to add the metrics you
want to consider? These are all fine, don't
worry about I have to say, or I change it or I had to come up with
something different. That's okay, that's
how we learn, and that's how a
project progresses. But make sure you add in better reasoning about
why you're adding this particular metric or why you're removing a particular metric
because it doesn't apply. And then does
experimental setup. By now, hopefully you have your data ready
and you may have some color preliminary exercise in terms of trying
something out. Just see whether you are
experimental setup makes sense. Is it like training set
since that's the split, some subset like scenarios. Checking and updating
your description of the experimental setup, and also of course, comparison. If you're talking
about comparing across different methods, do you have any update? Maybe you're not there yet. You see I'm still playing with the first method. That's okay. But if you have any
further understanding and also further plan in
terms of how you want to compare with different
methods, update your report. And also like here, if you
have some preliminary results, this is already like where
you can start thinking about the reasoning of say like one key part in terms of evaluation section is to make sure that you don't just
report the results. Because say, I took of my data, I prepared my dataset and I
am building a classifier. I tried to say decision
three classifier. This is the three I got or this is the
performance I get, and also I tried to say
support vector machine, and this is a result
I get and put our tables and this is a
performance I'm getting that. You really want to be
starting to think about. Now you're seeing some
preliminary results twice. You have your evaluation
metrics you've seen the results and say,
what does it mean? Is this a good performance and why is this one better
than the other? Why is this one better
than the other? I expect them to
perform well overall. That looks reasonable, but I want to look at
some of the arrows, I see some issues, and this also where you
can potentially say, I've actually do it better. Or just say, well, because this method is
designing this way, they don't really address
this particular challenge. But it just, this is really
the step where you as you're getting some preliminary results start doing the reasoning, starting talking about
the trade-offs about when something works better and when another may
certainly work better. Because it's totally fine that your results are not perfect
and you say I tried this, but the results really
don't look good. Of course they'll say, well that's not how you define success or
failure of the project, but it's really more about
your understanding of why do work and why doesn't work and how you maybe
have to make it better. Then the discussion section. This is actually on the side,
it's Regis junior talking about how your project is
progressing any challenges, any changes basically adding
a more of the reasoning. For your proposal report, we ask you to put in
some of the timeline is when you're planning
out your project, this is what I'm planning to do, and this is the
how each component would take how much time, and also our current
status, all that. Now you just pick
that update it. You may say I receives on track, I have finished all this and actually falling the right time. Or just say that took a bit longer so I'm low
back and I'll slight delay it to so I'm actually going to adjust this a
little bit just to make sure I still would have a good
life finish of my project. Or just say, I spent some
time, this is all good, but now I won't
actually shifting my project a little bit so I have a bit of updated task
less than the timeline, all good, and also update your current status
part because they say, this is the one where
I have accomplished already and these are the
things that remain to be done. Also challenges, so this
could be potential challenges down the road or
challanges you have already faced or you're
facing right now. This all fine, but talk
about the challenges that occur or may
occur in your project, and if you have,
adjust that, great. Talk about how you tackle
that particular challenge. We're always still keep this notion about
alternative approaches, a backup plan so you may
have written something for your proposal
stage and now you say, well, great, I figured out just so I don't think that this
is a problem anymore. Or just say, I
made some progress and this is still a part
of having to figure out, so I may still run into some
problems so that's okay. But still adjust all your
updated like planning and the reasoning of how the remaining public project
or will be carried out. Also here, of course is again, you're highlighting some of the changes and also
if you have a lesson, this could be good lesson
and have a lesson, things out of work, great. I tried this and I
really helped me in the the further
analysis or just say, initially I didn't
do this but turn out it was really limiting my analysis down the road so I have to go back and
the change something. Those are all good. At
the center this is how we learn and just to keeping the same mind as you're
writing about your report and especially discussing
the challenges, the changes, the reasonably and also what may come
down the road. All this is a good that the
reason is the key part. Finally conclusion. Now look at the
report conclusion you wrote for the
proposal, update it. I said, by now you probably have a lot more information
and some don't like a better understanding
of the project so just update your summary part to say, in this project, this is what I'm doing and this is what
I have accomplished so far. Let's say the key
findings of course, you may only have
preliminary results, but you have some maybe one or two interests
and findings already put it in because
that's how you want to provide more the
takeaway message. Your conclusion should
really highlight some of the interests and part
of you have identified. Of course, the future
work will come later when you actually
finish your project. But that's how you
summarize your report. By now if you've basically
just as you're writing your checkpoint to
report and you're just taking your
proposal report, going through the
individual sections and then just see how
you can update it. Update it with new information, update it with the
changes that adding been a more results or progress, but a reason about how things
are working out or things that had to be changed because
of the some challenges. All those are good. That is really showing you are
learning in this process and showing your capability as an independent data
scientists because you are planning out and you're
figuring out your project. That's really what we're
trying to accomplish for the project check 1 stage. As you're updating
your checkpoint, the slides, your
checkpoint reports, just keep all this in mind, and to see where things
are in terms of progress, to see how things
may have changed, either things worked
out just as a planned versus things
that had to be adjusted. All those are good,
just so put that in but this is really the
real-world experience of working on a project. What we saw with something that I would think would
be very interesting, would like to pursue, we have some plan and by the
checkpoint it just like, we have better understanding and things are working out to some extent and there are
also things that we're changing and of course
things we're learning along. That's all for the project
SharePoint and thank you. We'll see you later.