Hello, everyone,
today we're going to finish our course project with the final
report review, right? So earlier, right, as we're wrapping
up the project and kind of finishing it with the final report, we want to make
sure we do a good job in terms of one summarizing and presenting the key
findings of the data mining project. But also we want to look
at the overall process and see how we can improve it further, okay? So by now, you should have submitted
your final report, right, that's include both the final presentation slides and
also your final project report, okay? So those are just the updated, expanded
version from your checkpoint slides and report, okay? As I have said, when you are finishing and
wrapping up the project, so the key aspects to highlight
is about the key accomplishments, what has been accomplished in the project,
and also what has been
learned in this process. Okay, so this is two parts,
the raw content or the core content of the project itself. But also it's about the procedure like
experience and the learning, okay? So as a reviewer, so we'll be looking at,
again, there's two pieces of submissions. So one is the final presentation slides, and also the other one is
the final project report, right? So we start with the slides. So the slides should work as actually
very good summary of the project, okay? So as a reviewer [COUGH] So
we pick the slides starting point, right? So first of all, say just pay attention
to how many slides you are seeing, right? Because as I said, by now,
when wrapping up our data mining project, we'll talk about roughly 15 to 20 slides. So when you're looking at
a particular submission, just see whether the content or
the number of slides is reasonable. It's not a hard limit, but as we said, we don't want this to be too
many because the goal is for the slides really to provide as a summary
rather than all the details, right? But you don't want to dive to be too few,
right, because too few, then it may not convey all
the important information. So it may be kind of missing some
key pieces or it may be kind of unclear to the reviewer in terms of
some aspect of the project, okay? So just kind of pay attention to
the overall kind of organization, the slides of the names, the slides, okay? The next piece is the executive summary,
right. So this is very important, as I said,
this is the final stage, right? So the project has been accomplished,
right? And then the executive summary, it's usually one to two slide here
should really have a very compact, but also to the point representation
of the core pieces of the project, what has been done,
what are the key findings. That's really what we want, right? Okay, so just make sure to check out
the executive summary of the slides and see whether the author has done a good
job conveying the core pieces, okay? And then of course, you get to
some of the more kind of standard components of the slides because
the slides should at least give you concise about a good kind
of summary across those aspects. What is the problem statement,
what is some of the related work and in a way highlighting the contribution
with this work and then specifically, what has been done in the work itself, what
core tasks have been accomplished, okay? And how the evaluation is done and
how the results, what are the key results. So these are the most important part and
the timeline, just to give you a better sense of how
the project was carried out, okay? Again, style, right? We have talked about this kind of many
times, we keep reminding people, right? So as a reviewer,
when you're looking at the slides, know that this is the final
presentation slides, right? Should it be like self contained? So that means should have all the
necessary information in it and it should really highlight the most significant
contributions of this work, okay? So as you look at the style of the slides, see whether there are things you can see
that worked particularly well, right? You can really comment on, say, yeah,
I really like it how this organized and clean or I like how this picture
really gives a good overview. Or I say, this slide is a bit busy,
like there's too much text, or the color is a little bit too much or
something. So just try to kind of pay attention to
the overall side of the slides, okay? All right, and then, of course,
we're going to look at the full report. So the slides hopefully should
give you a good understanding of the overall project, okay? Now, when you're reading the final report,
right, this workforce is longer, takes a bit more time, but it has
hopefully all the valuable information that you're trying to
capture as a reviewer, okay? So what do we so start? So said by now they should all be okay
with in terms of the ACM proceedings and template, we do want to pay a little bit
attention to the kind of page length, right? So 5 to 10 pages is the guideline we
provided, it's not a hard limit, but you want to see whether the length
of the report is appropriate, okay? So typically we're not looking for
something that's too long, right? As I said, if it's too long that it
provided too much information and people actually may not spend that
amount of time to read it, right? So it should be reasonably concise, it
should provide all the necessary pieces, but without being too long, okay? But of course, on the other end,
if it's too short, then apparently it may not include some
of the core information there, right? So just kind of as you're reviewing
the report, pay attention to the page lengths and then just kind of generally
have a bit of understanding about whether the names of the report is
appropriate for the project itself, okay? And then of course we'll get
to the specific aspects, okay? Abstract, the abstract should
be a very good summary, right? It should be kind of really a few sentence
each, just capturing the problem, study, the core contributions and
also the key results, right? So it shouldn't be long,
one to two paragraphs is what we need and should really give you a good kind
of summary of this project, okay? If it's vague, it's not clear or it's too long,
all those things you can note down, right? Because that's basically helping
others to improve this further, okay? Introduction, so this is the final report,
of course, as a reviewer, you may be seeing the project for
the first time, right? But just make sure as you're
reading through the introduction, should really have a convincing story,
right? Because as successful project, you want to set the stage by really
stating clearly what the problem is, why this problem is important to
address limitation of existing work and also what is the contribution for
this particular project. So you want to make sure that
is all clear as you're kind of progressing through the report, okay? So this is the introduction part,
it's very important, should really give you a good sense
of the scope of the project, okay? And then you read the related work
section, so this is the one the author should really do a good job kind of
highlighting related work, right? So we have said that it's usually good
to kind of group those related work in different paragraphs so
with different focuses. But then it is important to say how this
project builds upon prior work, right? It cannot be just a listing of few
prior work or they are all related, but they're not talking about why
specifically it's related or how the author is
building upon those work. So you want to see that aspect, right? So not just the list of
things that's relevant, but also how that is contributing or
like helping the project itself, okay? Then the core section, proposed work, so of course our project
can be very different. So there's really no how to say
a checklist in terms of for say you have to do one, two,
three, four, five, right? But instead you do want to kind of think
about the whole pipeline, we did this for our whole discussion about proposal
checkpoint and the final report, right? You want to really see
whether the project is carried out throughout
the whole data mining pipeline. See whether there's a good discussion
about the data, the tools that's being used, and also the specific
steps in terms of getting the data, understanding the data, pre-processing,
managing our data warehousing part, right? And then when it gets to the modeling
angle, see whether it's clear what problem they are looking at,
what kind of methods they're using, why this particular methods, and just
be clear in terms of the design, right? So all those need to be
clear to you as a reviewer. Of course, if there are pieces that's
kind of missing or it's not clear, then note those down,
because that can be important, actually can be very valuable feedback for
the author, okay? Now you get to the evaluation section,
right? So as a reviewer, so you really want to see whether the evaluation is
carried out effectively, right? So that includes a good evaluation,
kind of setup, and also the evaluation metrics if
there's any good comparison. But also the core part is
about the results, as I said, evaluation section is where you present
some of your key results, right? So see whether the results are convincing. So meaning that the way it's set up and
whether it's presented, it's actually clear to you and actually has some
interesting kind of findings there, right? And also another important piece
in the evaluation section for the reviewer to look at is that whether
there's a good kind of reasoning, right, you want to see the author
actually does a good job, like interpreting the results instead of
just presenting the results as is, right? So you want to see that there's
good reasoning behind the results that's being presented, okay? And then discussion section. So I usually personally really enjoy
reading the discussion section because I think that's where you actually see
how the project has progressed and also kind of really the thinking
behind the scene thinking that goes into the whole project, right? So you want to really read about what
the author's view in terms of how the project was carried out,
the timeline, how things worked out, how there's particular challenges and
how they address those challenges, or how things had to be adjusted or changed
because of certain circumstances, right? So this is actually very useful for both
the author in terms of self reflection. But as a reviewer,
I think it's also important for the reviewer to be able to see
how the project progressed and also actually learn for
themselves what is some good lessons, what worked, what didn't work,
what could be better? So the discussion section actually
always is actually very interesting to read about. Okay and then conclusion. So this section usually is not long,
right, probably one or two paragraphs, but actually should be really effective in
terms of one providing good summary, what is this project,
what has been done, but also really highlighting the key findings,
say, wow, this is repetitive. But from the reviewer's point,
you would appreciate, right? A good starting point in the abstract,
talk about what this is and then the summary or the conclusion really
gives you another kind of review of what has been accomplished. So that's very important, okay? But also there's one more piece we'll
talk about in this section, right? That's the future work discussion, okay? So as a reviewer, you want to be
able to kind of really pay attention to that part of the discussion and
see whether in the conclusion there has been some discussion
of a future work, right? And see whether the author has
done a good job in terms of kind of visually what can be done in terms of
future improvements or just more analysis. So see whether there's some
kind of good thinking goes into that paragraph talking about further
improvements of the project, okay? That also is always actually a fun
paragraph to read as well because that's really talking about
the vision of the author after having accomplished the project and
now have gained a lot, like a much better understanding
of the project, okay? One last thing, so
that's the references section. So as you're kind of wrapping up
the report, you're reading it, just make sure you check
the references quickly. See whether they're kind
of missing references or just like things that are not
correct in terms of formatting or missing information in
the particular references. Those are about style, but also it's
about conveying the message, right? Because if you're providing a reference, reference mean that people
should be able to look it up and get that particular article or particular
paper or a tool, whatever, right? So you want to make sure
that is actually correct. So from the reviewer's point of view,
of course, you don't need to hand check each one, but
as you're glancing through the references, just make sure it has all the proper
information incorporated with them, okay?